# PM2.5-Prediction-Using-ML-Models-and-GIS
Landsat 8 Products &amp; Topographical data was used to predict air quality level. Preprocessing was carried out in google earth engine and post processing in QGIS

ABSTRACT
Air pollution is a significant challenge affecting many cities globally. In Europe, Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) is among the highly polluted and mainly affected by air pollution. This pollution is caused by industrialization, traffic, energy production, natural sources such as dust and wildfire, and weak regulations. These factors result in a high level of pollutants in the air and pose a significant threat to public health. In this study, we integrate open source Landsat 8 remote sensing products, topographical data and the limited ground truth PM2.5 data to spatially predicts the air quality level across different seasons in Tuzla Canton, BiH by developimg three machine models namely XGBoost, K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN) and Naive Bayes (NB). These classification models are implemented based on the landsat 8 bands and environmental derived indices and topographical variables generated for the study area. The variable importance for predicting PM2.5 air quality level in the study area was implemented with the VarImp function on XGBoost model. It was observed that the LST, NDVI and Band 2 (red) had the highest importance in predicting the air quality level across all the seasons in the study area. Based on the predicted results, the XGBoost model had the highest overall accuracy across seasons with 0.95 in winter, 0.83 in summer, 0.98 in spring, and 0.89 in autumn. The KNN model had accuracy of 0.80, 0.67, 0.89, and 0.77 in the respective seasons, and NB model had accuracy of 0.94, 0.79, 0.98 and 0.87. The predicted model result was used to generate spatial air quality maps. Based on the probability and classification maps, PM2.5 air quality level predicted for Tuzla Canton in Winter Season is very unhealthy. At the same time, the air quality in Autumn and Spring is also unsatisfactory in some areas in the study area, posing a threat to public health, most importantly to vulnerable people. Summer air quality is satisfactory. The findings conclude that the PM2.5 air quality concentration in Tuzla Canton is relatively unsatisfactory and requires urgent intervention by government to prevent further deterioration of air quality in Tuzla and other affected cantons in BiH in the future.
